During its growth and division cycle the cell replicates all of its components and distributes them to create two daughter cells [1]. It is essential that the underlying processes, DNA replication (S phase), mitosis (M phase) and cell division (CD), take place in a defined sequence with the correct temporal separation: G1 → S → G2 → M → CD → G1 → . Progression through this sequence is characterized by specific transitions at boundaries between sequential stages of the cell cycle. At the **Restriction point** in G1 phase the cell decides whether to proliferate or quiesce (G0). This is followed later by the abrupt **G1/S transition** into S phase (DNA replication). Post-replicative cells in G2 phase enter into mitosis (M phase) at the **G2/M transition**. The decision to segregate sister-chromatids once all have become aligned pairwise on the mitotic spindle takes place at the end of prometaphase and triggers the meta/anaphase transition and cytokinesis. Anaphase is followed by the exit from mitosis back into G1 (mitotic exit). Progression through the cell cycle in eukaryotes is controlled by a conserved protein interaction network composed of protein kinases and phosphatases with stoichiometric inhibitors and activators, transcription factors, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes and the proteasome. The molecular interactions among these cell cycle regulators create a complicated dynamical system that oscillates once per cell cycle. In our proposal we focus on a systems-level description of the major cell cycle transitions in the mammalian cell cycle. Our hypothesis-driven research is based on our theoretical investigations of generic dynamic characteristics in eukaryotic cell cycle transitions.
